# Team Culture 

*Nobody wins individually in a team. If your team wins, you win.*

We, at OpenTeams Engineering, define team culture as a collection of values, behaviors, beliefs, and working practices that team members share while aiming to fulfill their collective purpose and where each team member feels valued and empowered. As culture grows out of the interactions between individuals, we strive for an inclusive culture where everyone and their ideas are valued and respected. A strong team culture is one where everyone in the team is aligned on purpose, values, behaviors, and working practices while also feeling they are celebrated as individuals. 

Regardless of an individual developer’s prior engineering practices and habits as a developer, the need to agree upon certain guidelines, policies, and practices is necessary to achieve cohesion and clarity in not only daily team practices but also overall team culture. Specific roles and guidelines can streamline processes that might otherwise be disjointed and unclear among members of a diverse subset. Therefore, while the guidelines aim to ensure that the team members are aligned on working practices to maximize our productivity, that all members of the team have autonomy to work in the best way for them so that we are not only more aligned but also empowered to be autonomous and work better both individually and as a team. 
As a team, our goal is to agree to adhere to a particular level of quality not only in our development practices (e.g no linter errors, no failing tests, naming conventions, Git branching model, release cycles, modular structure, software design practices and principles), but also creating and maintaining a strong team culture. In the spirit of this goal, *consider this document to be a ‘living document’ which will continuously be improved as we continue to learn and gain more experience in our development and team building skills.*

As a team, we expect each member to be a team player, collaborate and communicate well. In our team, we would like to see attention to details, whether it is in the form of clean code, or it is simply writing clearly when messaging on Slack. 
